# Assignment 3

## Harkishan Singh Grewal

CPSC-121 - Programming Concepts
February 6, 2015
Written in C++

## Programming Assignment

### Area Calculator
This C++ program computes the area of triangle, rectangle, or circle. The
program interacts with the user through a menu. The user can choose an option
to compute the area of specified shape or quit the program. The formulas below
specify how to compute the area of triangle, rectangle, or circle respectively.
It is assumed that the base, height, width, length, or radius measurements are
given in the same unit such as inches or centimeters.
  > *triangle* = 0.5 × *base* × *height*
  > *rectangle* = *width* × *length*
  > *circle* = *π* × *radius*^2 , where *π* = 3.14159

The program does the following:
  1. The program is menu-driven
  2. The program has a function to compute the area of triangle with the
    following specifications:
      - Input: base and height
      - Output: area of triangle
  3. The program has a function to compute the area of rectangle with the
    following specifications:
      - Input: width and length
      - Output: area of rectangle
  4. The program has a function to compute the area of circle with the
    following specifications:
      - Input: radius
      - Output: area of circle
      - Constant: *π* = 3.14159
  5. The program displays the proper output such as the shape and area

### BMI Database
This C++ program computes the Body Mass Index (BMI) and determines the weight
status for a student. The program instructs the user to input the student’s
name. The program finds the corresponding height (inches) and weight (pounds)
for the student. The program computes the student’s BMI and determines if the
student is overweight, underweight, or optimal weight. If BMI is between 18.5
and 25, then the student has optimal weight. If BMI is less than 18.5, then
the student is underweight. If BMI is greater than 25, then the student is '
overweight. The formula to compute BMI is given below:
  > *BMI* = *weight* × 703/(*height*^2)

The student database is given as follows.
Name    | Height | Weight
--------|:------:|:------:
bender  |  75.4  | 200.2
leela   |  70.8  | 140.7
fry     |  65.0  | 100.9

The program does the following:
  1. The program constructs the database above using three parallel arrays
    (one for names, one for heights and one for weights)
  2. The array size is a constant of 3
  3. The program instructs the user to input a student’s name
  4. The program has a function to search for a student’s name with the
    following specifications:
      - Input: target name, size of name array and array of names
      - Output: index of array element corresponding to the target name
  5. The program has a function to compute BMI with the following
    specifications:
      - Input: height and weight
      - Output: BMI
  6. The program has a function to determine if the student is overweight,
    underweight, or optimal weight with the following specifications:
      - Input: BMI
      - Output: display the proper weight status
  7. The program displays the proper output

### Exam Score
This C++ program computes the average score for a student. The program
instructs the user to input the student’s name. The program computes an
average score for the student. The names of three students are “bender”,
“leela” and “fry”. Each student has five exam scores. Each exam score is
from 0 to 10 and generated by a random number generator.

The program does the following:
  1. The program uses an array to include names of all students
  2. The program uses 2-Dimensional (2D) array to include exam scores for all
    students
  3. The number of students is a constant of 3
  4. The number of columns in a 2D array is a constant of 5.
  5. The program instructs the user to input a student’s name
  6. The program has a function to initialize the 2D array with random scores
    from 0 to 10. Thus, each element in the 2D array has a random score from
    0 to 10. The side effect is that the content of 2D array are changed with
    random numbers every time the initialization function is called.
      - Input: number of rows, number columns, 2D array to be initialized
      - Output: none
  7. The program has a function to search for a student’s name with the
    following specifications:
      - Input: target name, size of name array and array of names
      - Output: index of array element corresponding to the target name
  8. The program has a function to compute the average score for the student
    with the following specifications:
      - Input: number of scores and 1D array that contains student’s scores
      - Output: average score
  9. The program displays the proper output such as student’s name, 5 scores,
    and average score
